# Okanagan Raven Hydrology Model
Based on the Raven Hydrological Modelling Framework, the Okanagan Hydrologic Modelling Environment (OHME) is an open-source hydrologic modelling framework for the Okanagan Basin that provides the basis for ongoing and future hydrologic assessments in support of regional water management and planning.

This repository contains the Raven watershed models for 19 sub-watersheds in the Okanagan Basin. A full description of the model build is available at: https://www.obwb.ca/docs/obwb_report_2020-okanagan-hydrologic-modelling.pdf

Model forcing data (daily maximum and minimum temperature and daily total precipitation) is available on the Google Cloud Platform (see model metadata). Potential users should contact Nelson Jatel.

The original watershed models were first developed by Associated in 2020 and designed to run with Raven v3.0. Each of these 19 models were calibrated separately to two sets of watershed-specific data generated by Associated Environmental Consultants Inc. (Associated) (2019): naturalized flow time series (see the ```Associated 2020 Calibrations/Naturalized``` folder) and residual streamflow time series (see the ```Associated 2020 Calibrations/Residual``` folder).

In 2023, the models calibrated to naturalized flow time series were updated to run with Raven v3.7. These updated models are stored in the ```Associated 2023 Update``` folder. The 2023 update includes resolved bug fixes and improved reservoir mass balance representation and accounting as part of the latest version release of Raven.

#  Intended Usage
The models hosted on this repository are intended to provide a starting point for developing watershed models within the Okanagan Basin. The models are currently calibrated and set to simulate watershed responses to climate forcing data spanning from 1996 to 2017 with a warmup period starting from 1993.

Users are expected to take responsibility for their own deployment and application of these models. In line with general modelling practices, this can involve reviewing the model's input data, assumptions, discretization, structure, parameterization, simulation options, and calibration strategy.
